Breast Implants Miami
At Avana Plastic Surgery, we offer the latest advances in breast implants Miami. Whether you are considering breast implant surgery through traditional saline implants or more innovative options such as gummy bear implants, our surgeons have the experience and skill required to achieve the most stunning and natural-looking results.

Due to breast implants Miami coming in a variety of shapes, sizes, and texture, patients may feel confused about their choices. Whether you are seeking this procedure to correct congenital anomalies, deformities of the chest wall or for aesthetic reasons, the following information will give you an idea of the most common breast implants Miami available to you and provide you with more insight into their composition and characteristics. We will be happy to discuss your options during your initial consultation at Avana Plastic Surgery.



Breast Implant Composition
When it comes to undergoing breast implant surgery, the composition of the implant matters as much as the implant size. Implants can function differently depending on the type. There are saline, silicone, and cohesive gel implants designed for specific needs. While all breast implants Miami compositions can yield great results, your surgeon may recommend a specific type of implant after a thorough examination and discuss the incision approach suitable for your body type.

SALINE BREAST IMPLANTS
Saline breast implants consist of a silicone shell filled with saline fluid. These implants are generally round rather than teardrop shaped like the silicone implants. According to an article published in the Mayo Clinic: "Saline breast implants are available to women age 18 and older for breast augmentation and to women of any age for breast reconstruction." Saline implants have smooth or textured shells and come in different sizes as all other implants. During breast implants surgery, the surgeon will introduce a silicone shell into the body and fill it to the preferred volume. Since saline is just like water, the folds and rippling can be seen more often. However, if the implant ruptures, the patient will notice immediately.

One of the main advantages of saline implants is that the incision is less invasive since the shell is inserted empty and then filled with sterile salt water. Fortunately, if the implant breaks, the body absorbs the leaking saline harmlessly. These implants are an excellent option for patients concerned with visible scarring. There are incision site alternatives not possible with breast implants silicone options, including:

Transumbilical Breast Augmentation (TUBA) where the incision is made at the belly button rather than the underside of the breast. The empty saline implants are then moved using an endoscope for guidance. Finally, the breast implants are filled with sterile saline.
SILICONE BREAST IMPLANTS
These implants feel more natural than saline breast implants and have a lower rate of wrinkling and rippling. Silicone is lighter than saline. Therefore, there is a lower risk of displacement caused by gravity. However, a long scar is necessary since these implants are pre-filled by the manufacturer. Also, there is a slightly higher risk of capsular contracture particularly when the implant is placed in the subglandular plane. Saline breast implants, on the other hand, usually don't form capsular contracture after rupture or deflation.

Silicone implants rupture silently. A physical exam by your surgeon can only detect 30% of the breaks while an MRI can identify as much as 90% of ruptures. The FDA recommends routine MRIs for women with breast implants silicone gel. The good news is that when a rupture occurs, it is not as noticeable as with saline implants as there is no worry of deflation. The minimum age the FDA recommends for these breast implants is 22.

GUMMY BEAR BREAST IMPLANTS
Gummy bear implants were first approved in the United States back in 2012 for adults over 22 years of age or women of any age who wish to undergo breast reconstruction after cancer. While the FDA continues to study these implants, so far they are available for the public. The teardrop shaped of these breast implants contributes to its stability.

There is also extra cross-linking within the shell, which gives it more firmness. These implants also require a larger incision during breast implant surgery. According to the FDA, these breast implants are not better than the previous generation, just different and may also meet different needs. They are particularly beneficial for women undergoing breast reconstruction as it may not need to fit around current breast tissue.



Breast Implants Infographics
Breast implants surface infographic

Types of breast implants infographic

Schedule A Free Consultation Today
[Consultation form]



Choose the Shape of Your Implants
ROUND IMPLANTS
Round breast implants remain the traditional choice for many women undergoing breast implant surgery in the United States. Celebrities particularly love these implants because they can create round, soft, and nicely proportionated breasts. These breast implants are available in a range of diameters and degrees of projection. Therefore, women of any body type can benefit from them.

One of the main advantages of breast implants Miami is their smooth shell, which is usually felt less. These implants have also more fluid and less rippling, so the implant is less visible through the skin. Round breast implants assume a teardrop shape when the patient is standing up, and it takes a flat form when the patient is lying flat just as natural breasts do.

TEARDROP BREAST IMPLANTS
These implants carry most of the volume at the vase of the implant and have a natural slope at the top. They are supposed to mimic the appearance of natural breasts, and they come "pre-shaped." That is an excellent option for women who don't have a lot of breast tissue. These breast implants types feel firmer than the round ones, and they have less risk of rotation in the breast pocket. Women who underwent a mastectomy find these implants very useful as they help restore the natural look and feel of their breasts. Teardrop breast implants can resist leaking, and they are quite durable.



NEW TRENDS IN BREAST IMPLANTS
Breast implant surgery is still among the most popular plastic surgeries performed nationwide. According to statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, breast implant surgery has increased by 41% since 2000. But plastic surgery patients are now looking for more subtle and natural results. With more emphasis on clean living and healthy eating, women desire a smaller chest. In other words, getting large implants it's not always the best approach. Smaller breasts have less possibility of rupture or leakage and more flexibility for positioning. Also, some women may prefer a breast lift rather than breast implants.

Despite the rise in women choosing a smaller bosom, breast implants remain one of the top plastic surgeries performed in the United States with 300,378 breast implant procedures performed in 2017 alone. Large breasts continue to yield some unique advantages including more satisfaction and dramatic enhancement. Technology is also much safer than before, so there is a variety of breast implants Miami and techniques not available a few decades ago. The submuscular placement, for example, has the advantage of looking more natural as the breast tissue covers the implants. There is also less risk of visible rippling, better imaging with mammograms, and the blood flow to the nipple is preserved. Hence a future or combined breast implant with lift is more comfortable to perform.



Choose the Breast Implants That Meet Your Needs
Choosing the breast implants Miami that meet your needs and requirements can be difficult without expert advice. Your surgeon will assess the shape of your body: constitution, weight, and size of the breast before choosing the type of breast implant right for you. It's vital that you convey to your surgeon what you expect from the breast implants procedure and have your mind open to suggestions. Your lifestyle is also an essential factor to consider. Whether you lead an active or sedentary lifestyle, you can choose between round or anatomical implants with low, moderate and high profile options.

Saline and silicone implants have their benefits and drawbacks. The best way to choose what's right for you is to reduce your preferences. For instance, patients with moderate-sized breasts can benefit from smaller or larger breast implants types. However, patients without sufficient breast tissue may instead choose silicone implants as they provide natural results and have a lower risk of rupture. Your surgeon will advise you about the breast implants matching your body constitution.







breast implant revision recovery

DIFFERENT BRANDS OF BREAST IMPLANTS
When you choose to undergo breast implant surgery, you may not be aware that there are different brands out there or breast implants manufacturers. Currently, there are three FDA-approved breast implant manufacturers in the United States: Allergan, Mentor, and Sientra. These manufacturers adhere to the highest safety standards. All these breast implants were manufactured, tested, and went through clinical trials. However, these brands are not all the same. For example, only Sientra and Allergan offer FDA approved gummy bear implants, which come in a variety of sizes, shapes, and textures. Also, each brand has a different warranty policy. The choice comes down to personal preference.

At Avana Plastic Surgery we take into consideration several things when choosing the implant that's right for you. Based on our research and experience, we prefer to work with Allergan. Our breast implants in Miami have a good guarantee because of their durability and anti-breakage properties. While Allergan implants are not the most economical option, they are a reliable and recognized brand.



Breast Implants Miami FAQs
Can breast implants cause cancer?

The FDA has been investigating reports of women with a risk of developing anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) after breast implantation. By 2017, the FDA had received 414 medical device reports, and the risk of developing breast cancer is very minimal. According to the Plastic Surgery Journal: "The calculated risk from the FDA study was approximately one in one million per year. This risk may be slightly higher than in women without breast implants (three in 100 million per year), but this has not been proven."

What should I know before getting breast implants?

Patients should keep in mind that these are not lifetime devices. If you choose to have the implant removed rather than replaced, you may experience cosmetic changes such as wrinkling, and dimpling. Patients with breast implants Miami may experience more difficulty during self-examinations and routine mammography. Rupture of silicone breast implant is often silent, and may not be detected. That's why patients are advised to have an MRI 3 years after breast implant surgery and then every two years to determine if the rupture is present so the implant can be removed. Symptoms of a ruptured implant may include swelling, numbness, hardening, tingling, and pain. You should tell your surgeon about these or any other symptoms that may indicate a rupture is present. Also, you should inform your doctor of your implants to help minimize the risk of damages during routine checkups.

Can breast implants stop breastfeeding?

While women with enhanced breasts may encounter challenges in breastfeeding, they can still breastfeed. Breast implants Miami should not pose any danger to the baby. Most women who choose smaller implants have no problem breastfeeding. Also, keep in mind the breasts are more prominent during pregnancy, so patients may experience breast engorgement, which can be very uncomfortable.

What are some complications with breast implants?

The main complications of breast implants Miami are implant removal, reoperation, implant rupture with the silicone-filled implants, and deflation with saline breast implants. Severe capsular contracture (scar tissue formation around the implant) is also possible. Other complications may include scarring, change in sensation in the nipples, skin, and breast, and wrinkling, particularly with saline implants.

Can breast implant leak? How can I tell?

Deflation can occur suddenly or happen slowly. The patient will notice the loss of size and shape of the breast. But not all implants will result in deflation. Silicone implants, for example, are filled with a gel that doesn't leak like saline implants do. Therefore, the patient may experience a slight loss of volume over time. Fortunately, the gel remains mostly inside the scar tissue formed around the implant. A silicone rupture is difficult to detect unless the patient undergoes an MRI. Gummy bear implants don't have this problem. Even when they are cut in half the gel stays in place, and it will not travel to other parts of the body.

How can I avoid implant rupture?

Refraining from some actions can reduce the risk of implant rupture. Prior to breast implant surgery, make sure you talk to your surgeon. Some practices may increase the risk of rupture such as the trans-umbilical approach, filling too much the implant or overfilling it. Many surgeons consider the sub-muscular placement of the implant more advantageous since the implant is generally more protected. After breast implant surgery, patients are advised to refrain from high contact sports and strenuous activities that may cause trauma to the operated area. They are also encouraged to have an MRI every two years for silicone implants.

What's the type of breast implant more common today?

The gummy bear seems to be one of the most requested implants these days. These implants are less likely to break, they last longer, and they also look very natural. Unfortunately, the incision for this implant is much larger. These are things patients should consider before choosing the right implant for them.

Do you recommend round or teardrop shaped implants for me?

Saline implants are round, and cohesive implants can be round or teardrop. Our goal at Avana Plastic Surgery is to choose the implant that's right for the patient. When implants are placed above the muscle, the best results are achieved with the anatomical or teardrop-shaped implants. Round implants are ideal for patients that prefer a fuller look. When the implants are placed under the muscles, both round and anatomical implants will give similar looks. In such cases, some surgeons prefer round implants as they have a lower complication rate.

Which placement is best for me?

There are two options available: pectoral and sub-pectoral. Depending on your body type, breast shape, and expected results, your surgeon will choose the optimal placement for you. Thin patients generally have better results when the implants are placed behind the muscle that way the implants are not seen. Patients with droopier breasts may achieve better results when the implants are placed above the muscle.

Do breast implants hurt?

During breast implants surgery, the patient will not feel any pain or discomfort after general anesthesia is administered. Once the anesthesia wears off, patients will feel soreness in areas such as the armpits and chest, which can be alleviated with pain medication. When the body is completely healed, the patient should not experience pain from the implants.

What should I tell my surgeon during the initial consultation?

Patients are advised to tell their doctor if they have the following conditions as they may increase the risks associated with breast implants Miami:

Autoimmune diseases
A weakened immune system
Chemotherapy or radiation therapy after the breast implants have been placed
If they are taking any medications or have any conditions that may interfere with breast implants recovery and wound healing
Any mental health disorders or history of mental health disorders. Patients should be mentally stable prior to undergoing the breast implant procedure.
You should tell your doctor about conditions or medications that may interfere with wound healing and breast implants recovery or if you are struggling with any mental health disorders. When considering breast implant surgery, it is vital for patients to select a certified plastic surgeon to perform the breast implant procedure. Also, they should have access to before and after photos so they can review the surgeon's results.